ABRAHAM: For centuries,
mankind has been the dominant species.
We've domesticated animals,
locked them up, killed them for sport.
But a series of recent
events seem to suggest
all across the globe animals
have decided "no more."
And so we were hired,
a team of people from
different backgrounds,
with different specialties.
An expert in animal behavior,
a journalist,
safari guide,
foreign intelligence agent,
and a veterinary pathologist.
Our task: to Hnd out what is
happening with the animals,
why it's happening,
and how to stop it.
NARRATOR: Previously on Zoo:
The Mother Cell is in every
single product Reiden makes.
It's everywhere.
It's all over the world
and it can't be stopped.
- Where's your husband?
- Oh, my husband is back in Paris.
Although he never
became my husband.
I learned he was having
an affair with my sister.
You're talking
about your daughter.
Her name is Clementine,
she's 10 years old,
she was diagnosed
three years ago.
Why aren't you with her?
I've waited too long.
Uh, Jackson, hey.
Now's not really a good time.
Jamie, listen to me.
Ben killed the optometrist.
He isn't FBI.
I don't wanna hurt you.
Just give me the Mother Cell.
[GRUNTING]
Okay. That happened.
[GRovvl_lNG]
[GROWLING CONTINUES]
[sNARl_lNG]
What is that?
The bears.
[CAMERA SHUTTER CLICKING]
Oh, wait, I'm sorry. I.
No, no, no. I'm just.
- Hey, uh, I wasn't ready.
- We're good.
I have everything I need.
I should just turn myself in.
I know. You said that.
Just drink the iced tea.
It will make you feel better.
JAMIE: Look, seriously, I...
I shot a man, an FBI agent.
I can't just walk
away from that.
No, a man claiming to be an
FBI agent tried to kill you
and you defended yourself.
Quite capably, as Jackson says.
But we can't prove that.
So let's do something about it.
Let's prove that not-really-FBI-Agent
Ben Shafer was working for Reiden.
- Instead of ABRAHAM: We will.
- We Will? ABRAHAM: Yes.
- How?
- That I don't know yet.
But we'll figure something out.
Right now we worry about
keeping you safe, okay?
Forty-eight hours?
You said you could do it in two.
I did, and I can.
But only for repeat clientele.
Consider us old friends
and make it an hour.
I need a name.
For the passport.
Um...
Armstrong. Nancy Armstrong.
What are you thinking?
It's attractive,
that's for sure.
I'm also thinking there's no way
we can take this to the government.
Not yet.
Let's assume for a second
that everything that the
chemist said was true.
That molecules from
this Mother Cell are in
every single one of
Reiden's products.
We still need proof
that this is what's causing the
aberrant behavior in the animals.
We need, uh...
I don't want to say a smoking
gun, that's way too dramatic,
but a bloody knife?
If we had a bloody knife,
then perhaps we could build a proper case.
We're going to Paris.
Not that I don't love that
sentence, but why? What's in Paris?
A pack of four Eurasian brown
bears were being studied
for migration and
feeding habits.
Two days ago,
their trackers went offline.
The bio-lab assumed it was just
interference with the satellite.
Then, yesterday,
one of the bears showed up
in an apartment in the
16th arrondissement
and nearly killed the
woman who lived there.
That bear is now apparently deep in
hibernation in a research facility.
Um, hibernating?
- In the middle of summer?
- Yes.
And the rest of the
pack are still missing.
MITCH: Sleuth. - Pardon?
- A pack of bears is called a sleuth.
- Whatever. There.
- There's your bloody knife.
- Yeah, well,
if there's evidence of this Mother
Cell in that bear's bloodstream, then,
that would do it.
Perfect. When do we leave?
CHLOE: Jamie's passport
will be ready in an hour.
We'll have just enough
time to make our flight.
Where are you going?
Drugstore.
If we're getting on a red-eye to
Paris, I need some melatonin.
MAN: Yes, I understand.
Will he know who you are?
Okay, no, no, no.
I'm getting him now.
You've forgotten how to knock?
Have you heard of something
called the Mother Cell?
- The Mother Cell? What's that?
- I don't know.
But someone wants to talk to you.
He says that he has the Mother Cell
and he's willing to give it back,
but he needs something in return.
Transfer it.
[PHONE RINGs]
[WHISPERS] Go.
[PHONE BEEPS]
[IN NORMAL VOICE] Hello?
Hello.
Uh, you don't know me,
but you're gonna want to listen very
carefully to what I have to say.
How do we tell if he's been
infected by the Mother Cell?
Grab me that tray of test
tubes over there, will you?
I'm gonna take a blood panel
and hope that some
foreign elements show up.
If they do,
I'll compare their chemical
structure with the Mother Cell.
And if they match,
we've got our answer.
So, basically,
you're looking for a fingerprint,
- chemically speaking.
MITCH: Look at you.
Getting all science-y.
Ten drops each,
in each of those test tubes.
And as a backup,
we'll take a DNA sample.
Takes a little longer,
but might as well while we're
here, right?
Would you mind taking a swab
from our friend's mouth there?
[BEAR sNoRING]
Sure.
[MONITOR BEEPING]
- He's waking up.
- Oh, that's okay.
- Says you.
- No, really. It's fine.
Even in hibernation,
a bear's heart rate increases
when a predator approaches.
It's nature's little
warning signal.
Apparently,
you're quite predatory.
Okay.
This good?
That's perfect. Put that in one of
those little baggies over there.
- Huh.
- "Huh," what?
His eye is normal.
Come take a look.
No defiant pupil.
That doesn't make any sense.
If he was exposed
to the Mother Cell,
- his pupil should be...
- All big and scary.
Yeah. It should be.
WOMAN [IN FRENCH]:
MAN 1 [IN FRENCH]:
WOMAN:
MAN 12
I think you're wrong.
You understand what
tney've been saying?
- Enough of it.
MAN 2 [IN ENGLISH]: And you are?
[IN FRENCH]
MAN 2: And, uh,
what are you thinking?
Why is he wrong?
Look, these aren't
necessarily normal bears.
Exactly what kind
of bears are they?
What do you mean,
they aren't normal?
JACKSON: I don't know for sure.
But, uh, look, they won't necessarily
be acting like you'd expect them to.
And like she said,
bears of a sleuth stick together.
So if one entered the city,
most likely the others will too.
Perhaps they are
traveling underground?
The sewers, tunnels,
the Catacombs?
And that's why they
haven't been spotted.
From what we've already seen,
these bears,
they're unfazed by people.
So if they want food
before they hibernate,
they're gonna feed on
whatever's available.
There are more than
300 miles of sewers
and tunnels that
run under Paris.
I suppose we'd
better get searching.
That was perfect.
You motivated them, maybe got them
looking in the right direction.
Chloe.
[BOTH SPEAKING IN FRENCH]
Uh, Jean-Michel
Lion, Jackson Oz.
- Hey.
- Hello.
Jean-I\/Iichel is
a civil engineer.
I did not know you were back.
Your sister said you left town.
I'm just here for a few days.
And why are the
Americans interested
in a pack of missing
French bears?
- I'm sorry, I can't tell you.
- Ah.
Secret affairs I understand,
but, uh, heh, bears?
If I could tell you, I would.
But I can't.
Okay.
If I get any leads on where they may
be, I'll call you straightaway.
Thank you.
[IN FRENCH]
So that's him, huh?
The ex-fiancé.
[IN ENGLISH] That's him.
So there's two beds
in the guest bedroom.
And the sofa opens up
into a bed as well.
The most important question
is: Where is the wine?
I hear you French are
very famous for it.
In the kitchen. Help yourself.
So l... No defiant pupil?
What does that mean?
I don't know yet.
But it doesn't necessarily mean
that the bear wasn't
affected by the Mother Cell.
Blood labs should be back
in a couple of hours.
But why else would a bear be
hibernating in the middle of summer?
There are two types of
hibernation, okay?
One is what we
normally think of:
Yogi Bear goes into a
deep suspended animation
to survive a winter
of scarce resources.
The other is when an animal
falls temporarily dormant,
so that resources can be
biologically redirected.
What does that
mean, "redirected"?
Like a caterpillar
turning into a butterfly,
or when little kids sleep so
deeply when they're growing.
So you mean you think
that the bear's changing?
I think it's possible.
The question is,
into what?
[CELL PHONE CHIMES]
- Hey. JACKSON: Hey.
Dinner's almost ready.
- Cool.
- And we should, uh, probably
talk about Mitch's new
theory about the bears.
Yes. Delavane wants to see me.
I'll be back as soon as I can.
Jamie, vino?
Thank you.
But it's "Nancy." I should
get used to saying it.
As far as names go,
it's not so bad.
It was my mother's.
"Armstrong" was her maiden name.
Abdullah Balogun.
Sorry?
I had another name once too.
When I was 13 years old,
my parents were
killed in a raid.
Me and my little brothers
were taken in by the rebels.
The United Republic Army.
Malik and Kalim.
The rebels fed us
and gave us shelter.
But then a few days later,
I was made to undertake a...
initiation.
[MEN YEl_l_lNG]
It was their way of breaking me.
Forcing me to...
prove my loyalty to them.
They gave me a gun.
[MAN SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY]
And a single bullet.
And told me...
that I must choose...
which of my two
brothers I should kill.
And I was told...
that if I did not
shoot one of them,
then they would both be killed.
I looked into the eyes
of my baby brothers.
So sweet, so gentle.
And I knew from that moment
that they were both condemned.
You see, one of them would die,
but the other,
like me,
would be turned into an animal.
[INHALES SHARPLY]
So I made the only
decision I could.
I chose neither.
And I sent them both
to a better place.
[GUNSHOTS]
Five years later,
I escaped from the army and
changed my name to Abraham.
And I went somewhere
they would never find me.
And even though I knew I did
the right thing for my brothers,
I've been spending my whole life
trying to make up for my choice
by protecting the
people I care about.
My new family.
And now you are part
of that family too.
Miss Nancy Armstrong.
DELAVANE: Killed him?
An FBI agent.
A dirty FBI agent. At best.
So you've just said. Who?
Who killed him?
I can't tell you.
A member of my team.
The good news is,
I've been tracking channels,
and there hasn't
been any chatter.
None. It's almost as if they
haven't discovered his body yet.
But they will.
And whether he was a real FBI
agent on the take for Reiden
or posing as an FBI
agent, either case,
this is now a federal matter,
which means they won't stop until
they find out who killed him.
Which means, eventually,
they will find us.
And everything we are
doing will become public,
which will make it
impossible to do our job.
So, what are you saying?
You want me to turn them in?
I'm saying, Agent Tousignant,
that you may not
have asked for it,
but nothing is more important
than the task you have been given.
To figure out what is happening
to the animals and how to stop it.
I am doing that.
As much as you may
have come to like them
and want to protect them,
none of the people on your team
are more important than your
ability to complete that task.
Do you understand
what I'm saying?
Yes, sir.
How do we get past the
facial recognition?
No problem at all.
All we need is an employee
with top-level access.
Right, because why
would that be a problem?
CHLOE: Hey.
How is it going?
Abe had an idea, a good one.
- About the bears?
- No. About Jamie.
She can't spend the rest
of her life running.
We have to get her out of it
by proving that Ben Shafer
was on Reiden's payroll.
Okay.
Reiden has an office
here in Paris.
We're breaking in.
JACKSON: So the Paris Reiden ofHce
only handles European contracts,
but their computer network is linked
to the central system back in Boston,
which means,
if we can hack into their system,
we can prove that Ben
Shafer was on their payroll.
And how are we gonna do that?
What, the hacking-into-the-system
part or the proving-it part?
CHLOE: Both.
Here.
It makes more sense
if you drink this.
Okay. Uh, second part first.
I've done investigations like
this for stories I've written.
Corporations keep track of
every penny of their finances,
so if there's a
payoff to Ben Shafer,
it'll be in their
accounting records.
We just access the finances
and follow the paper trail.
Presuming that he
used his real name.
Agreed. It's not necessarily
going to be easy,
but there's always something.
Uh, money that moves from
one account to another.
- Numbers that don't add up.
- A pattern.
That's your specialty, right?
Recognizing patterns.
Okay, you say
once we access their finances.
- How are we gonna do that?
JACKSON: That's the cool part.
See, as far as we can tell,
all top-level Reiden executives have
access to their computer network.
But the system
doesn't use passwords.
It uses facial recognition.
So we just need to locate
an executive with access
and then trick their
system into thinking
they're signing
into their account.
ABRAHAM: And that's
where you come in.
This is going to
be a team effort.
Even Mitch.
We're presuming there are thousands
of documents to comb through,
so we're going to
copy the records
onto a computer with
enough storage space.
The one in the animal lab.
And what's my role?
You get to have some fun.
- Thank you.
WOMAN: You're welcome.
[MAN SPEAKING IN FRENCH OVER PA]
Hey, how's it going?
Almost there.
Six, seven, nine, seven,
dot, six, three,
zero, dot, six, four.
Six, three, zero,
dot, six, four.
Okay, got it.
- Good luck.
- Thanks.
[CELL PHONE RINGs]
Hey.
JAMIE: Six o'clock,
blue suit, dark hair.
He's Antoine Bellrose,
senior VP, financial strategy.
Got it. Bellrose, VP, finance.
Good luck.
- Why's she stopping?
- I don't know.
What's wrong?
The security guard over there, I know him.
He's ex-DGSE.
I can't do this.
He's gonna recognize me.
We have to get out of here.
We need to come up
with another plan.
No. I got this,
give me your phone.
But Abe's right,
you got to get out of here.
[SPEAKS IN FRENCH]
Uh, Monsieur Bellrose?
Do you speak English?
- Yes. JACKSON: Fantastic.
My name is Scott Poison.
Uh, I'm with the Msisimko
Safari Camp back in Africa.
Have you been to
Africa, Mr. Bellrose?
BELLRGSE: Africa?
- Heh. No, I didn't think so.
Neither did the Finance
Department in the States,
which is why they
nominated you for the trip.
What trip?
I knew that you didn't get our letters.
That's probably why you didn't respond.
For the work you've done,
you've been nominated for a trip to
Africa, all expenses paid.
You are joking, yes?
I mean,
this is some sort of prank?
No, no joke, no prank.
Apparently,
you earned the company a fair
amount of money last year.
Yes, uh, I did.
Let me get my calendar out here.
We have open dates in
August and October.
- A little to the left.
- Though, um,
I would suggest the fall.
It's a much better time of year.
- Yes.
- So how does that work for you?
Sure.
[BEEPING]
All right, well, August it is.
That's it.
Get your bags packed and we'll be in
touch, Mr. Bellrose.
- Thank you.
- No, no, don't thank us.
Thank your colleagues
back in the States.
Come on, come on, come on.
[SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY]
Mademoiselle?
Oh, thank you.
Well, damn.
They actually pulled it off.
Dr. Morgan.
Your blood labs are back.
- DNA profile too.
- Thank you.
Something is wrong?
No.
I was hoping there would be something
abnormal in the bear's blood work.
It turns out there is.
That's good news, yes?
Yeah, that's good news.
This DNA, however,
makes zero sense.
That's abnormal too?
It looks like it's changing.
[BEAR GRUNTS]
[MONITOR BEEPING]
- I think he's waking up.
- Yeah.
Cannot be good.
Hand me some of that
sedative over there.
[BEAR sNoRING]
What the hell?
WOMAN: What?
Bent the needle.
Can you...?
Feel this.
Feels like armor.
I don't understand.
How is that possible?
I don't have a clue.
[BEAR GRovvl_s]
[MONITOR BEEPING RAPIDLY]
[GRovvl_lNG]
- Okay, don't move. WOMAN: Aah!
Aah!
Dr. Morgan, no!
Dr. Morgan.
Dr. Morgan, are you all right?
Uh, yeah.
JACKSON [OVER PHONE]: You
injected it with what?
A microchip,
with an RFID tracker.
What? Why do you have a
microchip with an RFID tracker?
MITCH: In case anyone had any plans
to release it back into the wild.
How about this?
Don't ask questions,
just be grateful.
Okay, where is he now?
MITCH: Same as five minutes ago.
He's running through the
woods, alongside the highway.
It looks like he's
headed towards the, uh,
- "Meudon" Forest.
- The Meudon Forest?
Yeah, that's what I said.
The Meudon Forest is south,
but according to the
people from the bio-lab,
that bear lived west,
in les Hauts-de-Seine.
JACKSON: So if he's
not headed home,
he's headed towards
the other bears.
Listen, you know how we talked
about the bears changing?
Well, I think they've developed
some kind of endoskeleton.
- What do you mean?
- A hard shell,
like a hard shell
underneath its skin.
Wait a minute, a shell?
You got to be kidding me.
Sadly, no.
Okay, so the wildlife services
and the police are waiting for us
on the other side of the Meudon.
What are you doing here?
Told you I was fine.
Well, I came to make sure you
were as fine as you said you were.
- Well, you missed quite a party.
JAMIE: Yeah, I can see that.
Hey,
that's a nice little scratch.
- I know, it's hot, right?
JACKSON: Okay.
We're at the forest, Mitch,
northwest corner. Where's the bear?
In the woods.
Due west of you.
Looks like about...
500 yards in.
It looks like Park
Services are already there.
[GUNSHOTS]
[MAN YEl_l_lNG]
So is one of you going to
tell me what is going on here?
What do you mean?
That bear has some kind
of super thick skin.
Huh? It took three tranquilizer
darts to bring it down.
Is this some kind
of next-gen weapon
that your agency is
experimenting with?
No.
No!
Still no leads on the
other three bears?
No, but Park Service
is going to Cordon off
the woods and do a grid search.
If they are here,
we'll find them.
Okay, we'll help you look.
Sure.
What is it?
Where's your friend, Jackson?
JACKSON: Over here!
ABRAHAM: Jackson.
Ice-cold.
He's been dead for
at least a few days.
What is this place?
It's Fort de Chétillon.
It was built in the 18705,
from the Prussian War.
They tore most of it
down 40 years ago.
What is it, raHki?
Bear scat.
Multiple tracks.
Must be three of them.
[IN FRENCH]
Delightful.
JACKSON: Abe, look at this.
Does that hole look big
enough for a bear to get in?
[IN FRENCH]
CHLOE: Huh?
CHLOE:
[IN ENGLISH] Guys,
I mapped this place for the city.
It's a maze in there,
you'll get lost.
- Do you have a gun for me?
CHLOE: No.
[GRovvl_lNG]
[ABRAHAM HUMMING]
Really?
What?
It comforts me.
[sNARl_lNG]
What is that?
The bears.
They're snoring.
Oh, my God.
[sNoRING]
There's no signal.
I can't call this in.
There's only two of them.
Where's the third?
Come on.
[\NHISPERING] Okay, guys.
That's three.
Can we go now and alert
Wildlife Services?
Let's go.
When we were living together,
I was always the one
who killed the spiders.
What is it?
This is where the
bears were sleeping.
Are you certain?
I remember the debris
right there in that corner.
Okay.
Let's get out of here. Come on.
[GRovvl_lNG]
Stand your ground.
All right? Don't.
Don't run, but don't let
it think you're a threat.
- No!
- The other bears.
We gotta stop him.
Aah!
[CHLOE SPEAKS IN FRENCH]
[COCKS GUN]
- You okay?
- Yes.
JACKSON: Hey! Hey, bear!
Look right over here!
Come get me!
So my friend can
shoot you in the back!
Huh? Come on over here!
Hey, Mr. Bear!
Right over here! That's right.
Right over here!
Nicely done.
Anytime.
[I NDISTI NCT RADIO CHATTER]
[CHLOE SPEAKS IN FRENCH]
[IN FRENCH]
[SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY]
This is the DNA profile
of our bear from the lab.
And this is the
same bear's DNA...
six years ago,
when he was first tagged.
- It changed. MITCH: Mm-hm.
Because of the Mother Cell.
- Uh, yes and no.
- What does that mean?
MITCH: Okay,
think of it this way.
None of the Earth's
creatures are born perfect.
Right?
We all have genetic anomalies.
Be it a birthmark,
double-jointed wrists, webbed toes.
But the anomalies
that become the norm
are the ones that are adaptive.
That are more useful to
survival, like opposable thumbs.
What does it have
to do with animals?
The traits we've seen.
The bear's endoskeleton,
the bats flying abnormally high,
Iions seemingly communicating
over long distances...
They all make their species
more capable of survival.
- Stronger, better.
- And what I think...
Just like our ancestors
developed opposable thumbs,
I think the Mother Cell is just
accelerating these mutations
in the animal kingdom that
we would see occur naturally,
but not for another
several generations.
Maybe a couple hundred
years from now,
depending on how long it takes
us to screw up the planet.
But we're seeing it now
because of the Mother Cell.
But here's the good news.
If the Mother Cell can make a
naturally-occurring situation worse,
maybe it can do the opposite.
M ITCH: Correct.
But what's the opposite?
The Mother Cell can
cure the animals?
Dr. Morgan believes so, yes.
He says it will take
some time to figure out
how to alter the
Mother Cell's chemistry
to make a vaccine,
but he's convinced that
his reasoning is sound.
Wow.
- This is...
- Exciting. Yes, I know.
And the answer to the question
you haven't asked me yet is no.
No.
I'm not gonna cut loose the member
of my team who killed Agent Shafer.
And if you're not happy with the
way I'm handling my assignment,
you can feel free to replace me.
But until then, now that I know
what's happening to the animals,
I am gonna try to do
my best to reverse it.
If that's okay with you.
You surprise me,
Miss Tousignant.
Thank you.
I believe you're waiting for me.
I'm Clayton Burke.
I had to lie to my wife.
She doesn't understand why
I had to rush off to Paris
and miss our 24th
wedding anniversary.
And I have to tell my
daughter why she's dying,
even though there are
people who have a medicine
that can save her life.
Her name's Clementine. She's 10.
We first discovered she had
Glazier's Syndrome when she was 7.
So, basically,
as long as she can remember,
she's been the kid who's dying.
I'm sorry.
That's not what I
want to hear from you.
What I want to hear is:
"Yes, of course,
your daughter can have the
drug that can cure her."
Followed by the question:
"When can we deliver it'?"
Well, I'm assuming you
applied for the Stage 3 trials
and your daughter was rejected
because she's too young.
Maybe I'm not being clear.
I don't want her
placed in atrial.
Seven years of wildly
successful trials
is enough to convince me
that your drug will cure her.
Three months of pills...
and she'll be symptom-free.
And how do you
expect me to do that?
The entire program is under
intense FDA screening.
Every dose is accounted for.
Not my problem, is it?
I'll expect a call from you
within 48 hours, telling me where
and when I can get my medicine.
The Mother Cell.
How do we even know you have it?
Have a nice day.